.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2015 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd April 23, 2015
.Dt SVCS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm svcs
.Nd report service status
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl aHpv\?
.Op Fl o Ar col Ns Oo , Ns Ar col Oc Ns ...
.Oo Fl R Ar FMRI-instance Oc Ns ...
.Oo Fl sS Ar col Oc Ns ...
.Op Fl z Ar zone Ns | Ns Fl Z
.Oo Ar FMRI Ns | Ns Ar pattern Oc Ns ...
.Nm
.Brq Fl d Ns | Ns Fl D
.Fl Hpv\?
.Op Fl o Ar col Ns Oo , Ns Ar col Oc Ns ...
.Oo Fl sS Ar col Oc Ns ...
.Op Fl z Ar zone Ns | Ns Fl Z
.Oo Ar FMRI Ns | Ns Ar pattern Oc Ns ...
.Nm
.Brq Fl l Ns | Ns Fl L
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl z Ar zone Ns | Ns Fl Z
.Bro Ar FMRI Ns |  Ns Ar pattern Brc Ns ...
.Nm
.Fl x
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl z Ar zone Ns | Ns Fl Z
.Oo Ar FMRI Oc Ns ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command displays information about service instances as recorded in the service
configuration repository.
.Pp
The first form of this command prints one-line status listings for service
instances specified by the arguments. Each instance is listed only once. With
no arguments, all enabled service instances, even if temporarily disabled, are
listed with the columns indicated below.
.Pp
The second form prints one-line status listings for the dependencies or
dependents of the service instances specified by the arguments.
.Pp
The third form prints detailed information about specific services and
instances.
.Pp
The fourth form explains the states of service instances. For each argument, a
block of human-readable text is displayed which explains what state the service
is in, and why it is in that state. With no arguments, problematic services are
described.
.Pp
The output of this command can be used appropriately as input to the
.Xr svcadm 1M
command.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width "-R FMRI-instance"
.It Fl \?
Displays an extended usage message, including column specifiers.
.It Fl a
Show all services, even disabled ones. This option has no effect if services
are selected.
.It Fl d
Lists the services or service instances upon which the given service instances
depend.
.It Fl D
Lists the service instances that depend on the given services or service
instances.
.It Fl H
Used for scripting mode. Do not print headers and separate fields by a single
tab instead of arbitrary white space.
.It Fl l
Displays all available information about the selected services and service
instances, with one service attribute displayed for each line. Information for
different instances are separated by blank lines.
.Pp
The following specific attributes require further explanation:
.Bl -tag -width "dependency"
.It Sy dependency
Information about a dependency. The grouping and
.Ar restart_on
properties are displayed first and are separated by a forward slash
.Pq Sy / .
Next, each entity and its state is listed. See
.Xr smf 5
for information about states. In addition to the standard states, each service
dependency can have the following state descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width "multiple"
.It Sy absent
No such service is defined on the system.
.It Sy invalid
The fault management resource identifier
.Pq FMRI
is invalid
.Pq see Xr smf 5 .
.It Sy multiple
The entity is a service with multiple instances.
.El
.Pp
File dependencies can only have one of the following state descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width "unknown"
.It Sy absent
No such file on the system.
.It Sy online
The file exists.
.Pp
If the file did not exist the last time that
.Nm svc.startd
evaluated the service's dependencies, it can consider the dependency to be
unsatisfied.
.Nm svcadm Cm refresh
forces dependency re-evaluation.
.It Sy unknown
.Xr stat 2
failed for a reason other than
.Dv ENOENT .
.El
.Pp
See
.Xr smf 5
for additional details about dependencies, grouping, and
.Ar restart_on
values.
.It Sy enabled
Whether the service is enabled or not, and whether it is enabled or disabled
temporarily
.Pq until the next system reboot .
The former is specified as either
.Sy true
or
.Sy false ,
and the latter is designated by the presence of
.Pq Sy temporary .
.Pp
A service might be temporarily disabled because an administrator has run
.Nm svcadm Cm disable Fl t ,
used
.Nm svcadm Cm milestone ,
or booted the system to a specific milestone. See
.Xr svcadm 1M
for details.
.El
.It Fl L
Display the log file of the selected services and service instances, one
per-line.
.It Fl o Ar col Ns Oo , Ns Ar col Oc Ns ...
Prints the specified columns. Each
.Ar col
should be a column name. See
.Sx COLUMNS
below for available columns.
.It Fl p
Lists processes associated with each service instance. A service instance can
have no associated processes. The process ID, start time, and command name
.Po
.Sy PID , STIME ,
and
.Sy CMD
fields from
.Xr ps 1
.Pc
are displayed for each process.
.It Fl R Ar FMRI-instance
Selects service instances that have the given service instance as their
restarter.
.It Fl s Ar col
Sorts output by column.
.Ar col
should be a column name. See
.Sx COLUMNS
below for available columns. Multiple
.Fl s
options behave additively.
.It Fl S Ar col
Sorts by
.Ar col
in the opposite order as option
.Fl s .
.It Fl v
Without
.Fl x
or
.Fl l ,
displays verbose columns:
.Sy STATE , NSTATE , STIME , CTID ,
and
.Sy FMRI .
.Pp
With
.Fl x ,
displays extra information for each explanation.
.Pp
With
.Fl l ,
displays user-visible properties in property groups of type
.Sy application
and their description.
.It Fl x
Displays explanations for service states.
.Pp
Without arguments, the
.Fl x
option explains the states of services which:
.Bl -bullet
.It
are enabled, but are not running.
.It
are preventing another enabled service from running.
.El
.It Fl z Ar zone
Display only the services in the
.Ar zone .
This option is only applicable in the global zone, see
.Xr zones 5 .
.It Fl Z
Display services from all zones, with an additional column indicating in which
zone the service is running. This option is only applicable in the global zone,
see
.Xr zones 5 .
.El
.Sh OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width "FMRI-instance"
.It Ar FMRI
A fault management resource identifier
.Pq FMRI
that specifies one or more instances
.Pq see Xr smf 5 .
FMRIs can be abbreviated by specifying the instance name, or the trailing
portion of the service name. For example, given the FMRI
.Sy svc:/network/smtp:sendmail ,
the following are valid abbreviations:
.Sy sendmail :sendmail smtp smtp:sendmail network/smtp ,
and the following are invalid abbreviations:
.Sy mail network network/smt .
.Pp
If the FMRI specifies a service, then the command applies to all instances of
that service, except when used with the
.Fl D
option.
.Pp
Abbreviated forms of FMRIs are unstable, and should not be used in scripts or
other permanent tools.
.It Ar pattern
A pattern that is matched against the FMRI of service instances according to the
"globbing" rules described by
.Xr fnmatch 5 .
If the pattern does not begin with
.Sy svc: ,
then
.Sy svc:/
is prepended. The following is a typical example of a glob pattern:
.Bd -literal
qexample% svcs \e*keyserv\e*
STATE          STIME     FMRI
disabled       Aug_02    svc:/network/rpc/keyserv:default
.Ed
.It Ar FMRI-instance
An FMRI that specifies an instance.
.El
.Sh COLUMNS
Column names are case insensitive. The default output format is equivalent to
.Fl o Sy state,stime,fmri .
The default sorting columns are
.Sy STATE , STIME , FMRI .
.Bl -tag -width "NSTATE"
.It Sy CTID
The primary contract ID for the service instance. Not all instances have valid
primary contract IDs.
.It Sy DESC
A brief description of the service, from its template element. A service might
not have a description available, in which case a hyphen
.Pq Sy \(hy
is used to denote an empty value.
.It Sy FMRI
The FMRI of the service instance.
.It Sy INST
The instance name of the service instance.
.It Sy NSTA
The abbreviated next state of the service instance, as given in the
.Sy STA
column description. A hyphen denotes that the instance is not transitioning.
Same as
.Sy STA
otherwise.
.It Sy NSTATE
The next state of the service. A hyphen is used to denote that the instance is
not transitioning. Same as
.Sy STATE
otherwise.
.It Sy SCOPE
The scope name of the service instance.
.It Sy SVC
The service name of the service instance.
.It Sy STA
The abbreviated state of the service instance:
.Bl -tag -width "DGD"
.It Sy DGD
degraded
.It Sy DIS
disabled
.It Sy LRC
legacy rc*.d script-initiated instance
.It Sy MNT
maintenance
.It Sy OFF
offline
.It Sy ON
online
.It Sy UN
uninitialized
.El
.Pp
Absent or unrecognized states are denoted by a question mark
.Pq Sy \?
character. An asterisk
.Pq Sy *
is appended for instances in transition, unless the
.Sy NSTA
or
.Sy NSTATE
column is also being displayed.
.It Sy STATE
The state of the service instance. An asterisk is appended for instances in
transition, unless the
.Sy NSTA
or
.Sy NSTATE
column is also being displayed.
.It Sy STIME
If the service instance entered the current state within the last 24 hours,
this column indicates the time that it did so. Otherwise, this column indicates
the date on which it did so, printed with underscores
.Pq Sy _
in place of blanks.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.Bl -tag -width "0"
.It Sy 0
Successful command invocation.
.It Sy 1
Fatal error.
.It Sy 2
Invalid command line options were specified.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Sy Example 1 No Displaying the Default Output
This example displays default output:
.Bd -literal
example% svcs
STATE          STIME    FMRI
\&...
legacy_run     13:25:04 lrc:/etc/rc3_d/S42myscript
\&...
online         13:21:50 svc:/system/svc/restarter:default
\&...
online         13:25:03 svc:/milestone/multi-user:default
\&...
online         13:25:07 svc:/milestone/multi-user-server:default
\&...
.Ed
.It Sy Example 2 No Listing All Local Instances
This example lists all local instances of the
.Sy service1
service:
.Bd -literal
example% svcs -o state,nstate,fmri service1
STATE        NSTATE        FMRI
online       -             svc:/service1:instance1
disabled     -             svc:/service1:instance2
.Ed
.It Sy Example 3 No Listing Verbose Information
This example lists verbose information:
.Bd -literal
example% svcs -v network/rpc/rstat:udp
STATE          NSTATE        STIME    CTID   FMRI
online         -             Aug_09        - svc:/network/rpc/rstat:udp
.Ed
.It Sy Example 4 No Listing Detailed Information
This example lists detailed information about all instances of
.Sy system/service3 .
Additional fields can be displayed, as appropriate to the managing restarter.
.Bd -literal
example% svcs -l network/rpc/rstat:udp

fmri         svc:/network/rpc/rstat:udp
enabled      true
state        online
next_state   none
restarter    svc:/network/inetd:default
contract_id
dependency   require_all/error svc:/network/rpc/bind (online)
.Ed
.It Sy Example 5 No Listing Processes
.Bd -literal
example% svcs -p sendmail
STATE          STIME    FMRI
online         13:25:13 svc:/network/smtp:sendmail
               13:25:15   100939 sendmail
               13:25:15   100940 sendmail
.Ed
.It Sy Example 6 No Explaining Service States Using Nm Fl x
.Bl -enum
.It
In this example,
.Nm
.Fl x
has identified that the
.Sy print/server
service being disabled is the root cause of two services which are enabled but
not online.
.Nm Fl xv
shows that those services are
.Sy print/rfc1179
and
.Sy print/ipp-listener .
This situation can be rectified by either enabling
.Sy print/server
or disabling
.Sy rfc1179
and
.Sy ipp-listener .
.Bd -literal
example% svcs -x
svc:/application/print/server:default (LP print server)
 State: disabled since Mon Feb 13 17:56:21 2006
Reason: Disabled by an administrator.
   See: http://illumos.org/msg/SMF-8000-05
   See: lpsched(1M)
Impact: 2 dependent services are not running. (Use -v for list.)
.Ed
.It
In this example, NFS is not working:
.Bd -literal
example$ svcs nfs/client
STATE          STIME    FMRI
offline        16:03:23 svc:/network/nfs/client:default
.Ed
.It
The following example shows that the problem is
.Sy nfs/status .
.Sy nfs/client
is waiting because it depends on
.Sy nfs/nlockmgr ,
which depends on
.Sy nfs/status :
.Bd -literal
example$ svcs -xv nfs/client
svc:/network/nfs/client:default (NFS client)
 State: offline since Mon Feb 27 16:03:23 2006
Reason: Service svc:/network/nfs/status:default
        is not running because a method failed repeatedly.
   See: http://illumos.org/msg/SMF-8000-GE
  Path: svc:/network/nfs/client:default
          svc:/network/nfs/nlockmgr:default
            svc:/network/nfs/status:default
   See: man -M /usr/share/man -s 1M mount_nfs
   See: /var/svc/log/network-nfs-client:default.log
Impact: This service is not running.
.Ed
.El
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
Screen output is
.Sy Uncommitted .
The invocation is
.Sy Committed .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ps 1 ,
.Xr svcprop 1 ,
.Xr svcadm 1M ,
.Xr svccfg 1M ,
.Xr svc.startd 1M ,
.Xr stat 2 ,
.Xr libscf 3LIB ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr fnmatch 5 ,
.Xr smf 5 ,
.Xr zones 5
